We're going to continue now with our discussion of academic ethics. 

Academic ethics is, as I mentioned, ethical behavior and the integrity of your behavior in didactic courses. This is in contrast to your ethical behavior in terms of your research, which we've talked about as responsible conduct of research. What we will be talking about in this section is the academic ethics code-- which the Bloomberg School has-- our academic ethics policies, and what happens if there is a violation, and what is a violation of that code. 

So academic ethics and ethical behavior in courses is a responsibility of both you, as a research student, and the faculty. Our academic ethics code is located on the web, and you have the website here. And I'll read this to you, because it is important to know what the underlying code of the institution is in terms of academic ethics. 

So this is a quote from our policies and procedures. It says that students enrolled in the Bloomberg School of Public Health assume an obligation to conduct themselves in a manner appropriate to the Johns Hopkins University's mission as an institution of higher education. A student is obligated to refrain from acts which he or she knows, or under the circumstances has reason to know, impair the academic integrity of the University. Violations of academic integrity include, but are not limited to, cheating, plagiarism, knowingly furnishing false information to any agent of the University for inclusion in the academic record, violation of the rights and welfare of human and animal subjects, or misconduct as a member of either the School or University committees or recognized groups or organizations. 

Now the important points here is that number one, we're a school. We teach classes. As teachers and as students, we need to be sure that there is the utmost of academic integrity in those courses. You cannot cheat. You cannot plagiarize in papers. And you can't give the registrar information about your past if it didn't happen. So, the bottom line is that academic ethics extremely important to you as a student, and to me as a professor. 

So what is cheating? Well, cheating changes. Right? So when I went to school, cheating was writing the answers on your hand and looking at it during an exam. Cheating still includes looking at another person's paper during an examination or, which often happens, is actually talking during an examination. That is also cheating. With current technology, cheating is getting a cell phone call or, perhaps more importantly, a text message with the answer to a question during an examination. And one aspect of cheating-- which I want to mention because a lot of students get caught in this-- is that cheating is changing the answer sheet, or an exam paper, after it has been graded, and then asking for that exam paper or answer sheet to be regraded. I want to caution you that most professors now, before they give back graded exams or graded answer sheets, will make a copy of that original answer sheet or exam. So if you change it, and then ask for it to be regraded, you're going to be, as they say, caught red-handed. 

Now in the definition in the academic ethics code, there was something called an academic evaluation. Now what's that? So the policy and procedure on academic ethics defines an academic evaluation as quote, "defined to include without limitation, in-class exams, whether or not in writing, laboratory reports, take-home examinations, research or term papers, exercises, or any other assignment intended to evaluate a student's performance in the course." Unquote. 

So, what you, as a student, need to understand is that any and all academic evaluations, any time you were asked to perform and to share your knowledge with the professor, in many different formats, you need to be sure that that work is your own, and that you haven't copied it from someone, you haven't gotten a message from someone, but it's your work and your knowledge. 

Now in this school we often have many class projects and group projects, and the instructor needs to explain to you very clearly whether an evaluation is going to be a group project, in which case it's OK to work together, or it's not. But it's the instructor's responsibility to be sure that that's clear, whether it's a group project or an individual project, and if you are not clear about it, then the default value is to do it yourself. In other words, the default value is not to assume it's a group project, but if you have any questions about it, and you don't have an opportunity to talk to the professor about it, then assume that the evaluation is an individual one. 

Now plagiarism is something which you probably have heard about, but about which there is reasonable amounts of confusion. So plagiarism is, and again I'm using the words of our policy and procedure memorandum on academic ethics, plagiarism is quote, "as taking for one's own use the words, the ideas, the concepts, or the data of another without proper attribution. Plagiarism includes both direct or paraphrasing of the words, thoughts, or concepts of another without proper attribution." 

So what is this thing called proper attribution? Well, proper attribution is the use of quotation marks, or single spacing and indentation, for words or phrases directly taken from another source, accompanied by the proper reference to that source. So if you're going to use someone else's words, and either closely paraphrase them or use them directly, to give proper attribution, you have to do two things. You have to put them in quotation marks or single spacing, and you have to give the reference. 

Now if you're going to be just using someone else's ideas or concepts, or discussion of data, but not the exact words, then it's OK to just use the reference, and use that as the citation. So I'm sorry that I'm going to be redundant here, but this is very important. And this is often a source of confusion. If you are using the words or ideas from someone else, you must give credit by citing a reference. But, and in addition, if you are using someone else's words, a reference alone is not sufficient. You must also indicate that you are using someone else's words, verbatim, by using either quotation marks or indentation and single spacing. 

So another way to think about this is when you write something on your exam paper, or in your paper that you're writing for a particular course, the professor when reading that paper assumes that the words there are your words. That the voice that they read about is your voice. And if it's not, if it's someone else's words, or someone else's voice, then you need to tell the professor that it's not your words. And you tell the professor that by using quotation marks or indentation and single spacing. 

Now upholding academic ethics, as I mentioned, and this is very, very important, is the responsibility of both you, as a research student, and me as a research professor. 

According to our procedures for our school, dealing with violations or potential violations of academic ethics, we have two ways that a professor can deal with these alleged violations of academic ethics. We could, first, take the case directly to the academic ethics board. This is a group of faculty and students-- I think there are six students and four faculty-- who are appointed by the dean each year, and the composition of this board is actually public information on the website. This board hears cases, tries to be proactive to prevent violations, and feels that its role is to educate students and faculty alike on academic ethics. Now the hearing of cases is done according to a set of procedures that is articulated in our policy and procedures, which I will refer to at the end of this discussion, but it's not a fun experience, I can tell you, to hear these cases. And we don't have many cases each year, but there can range from either none, or three or four cases. And it isn't a legal hearing, but it has many of those aspects. And as I said, if you need something to go to sleep, just read the policy and procedure manual on how the academic ethics board needs to function to hear a case in academic ethics. So that's one thing that an instructor can do. If they think there may have been a violation, they can just take the case directly to the academic ethics board. 

Alternatively, a professor could do a direct resolution. And this is the second way that there can be an adjudication of a potential violation of academic ethics. In a direct resolution, the instructor talks with the student concerning the alleged violation. And they mutually agree upon a penalty that the instructor feels is appropriate. Now the student doesn't have to admit guilt in this case, whereas in a academic ethics hearing, there will be actually a finding of either guilt or innocence, in this case, the student just needs to agree upon a penalty for this alleged violation, but the student is under no obligation to accept this direct resolution. The student can say no, I'd rather not accept it, and then the matter will go to the academic ethics board. 

Now there are three important components of direct resolutions. There is a published list of penalties that an instructor and a student can mutually agree upon. And the direct resolution is really limited to this list. And the list starts for direct resolution at a score of zero on the evaluation. That's one of the potential penalties. And the list goes on in increasing severity to expulsion from the University with a violation of academic ethics noted on the transcript. And so there is a proscribed list that, as a direct resolution unfolds, that the instructor and the student have to agree upon. 

The academic ethics board, on the other hand, has two additional things that it can do. It can either find the student not guilty, or it can tell the student that they just have to redo the evaluation. Those two options are not open for the faculty member doing the direct resolution. The hearing on the academic ethics board involves, generally, two faculty and four students of the students and four faculty on the academic ethics board. Other than that, the proceedings is very confidential. 

However, it's also confidential for direct resolution, so the professor knows, the student knows, but the professor has to document the direct resolution to the student's advisor, to the student's program director or department chair, and to the dean's office. The finding of a direct resolution, however, does not go into a student's permanent academic record, unless the professor has given a penalty of an F in the course and a notation on the transcript. So in the direct resolution, there's only a few people that know about it. It's the student, obviously, the faculty member, obviously, and the mentor, the program director, and the dean's office. 

Now, why does the dean's office have to know about this? Well, there is a file in the dean's office that's kept, because if a student already has a direct resolution, and then is accused of another academic ethics violation, then the case goes directly to the academic ethics board. So there is a list of direct resolutions kept, and the first thing that a faculty member will do when they're beginning to come up with a direct resolution is check with the dean's office to make sure that there has not been a prior direct resolution. 

Now why do violations of academic ethics occur? You know, students generally, you now know and probably knew all of this before, that it's not appropriate for a student to cheat or plagiarize, so why do people get into this trouble? Why are there violations? Well, probably the main reason, according to [? Craig, ?] is poor time management. 

Our terms are eight weeks. Those eight weeks go by extremely quickly. And it is not uncommon for students to end up in the last two or three days of the term having three or four exams, and four or five papers due, and it is just impossible. So if you haven't managed your time, and done some of that ahead of time, either the studying or the papers, then you are in an impossible situation, and that's when cut and pasting from the internet, and other inappropriate behaviors occur. 

Another reason for a violation of academic integrity is that there's always confusion in the part of the student about whether this is a group project, or an individual project. And although I must tell you as a research student, I have tried to ask instructors to be very clear about this. In other words, please be sure to tell your students that when a particular evaluation is a group project and when it is a individual project, there is sometimes, when push comes to shove, confusion about this. And so, my advice to you, as a student, is if you're confused, or if you don't know, always assume the evaluation is an individual project, and not a group project. 

And the last reason, which is why I think violations of academic integrity occur, is the ease with which one can get information from the internet. I mean, even technology-challenged [? Craig ?] can figure out how to cut and paste things from the internet into another document. And so, this ease, which I know you know very well, also gives rise to violations. And again, a little bit of warning, it is easy to get information from the internet, and it is easy for a professor to realize that you have. And so, potential violations are often easy to detect. 

Now, what types of academic ethics violations occur in our school? Well, generally, the majority of the violations reported each year are for plagiarism in papers. And we have five to ten cases per year, and actually, the dean's office communicates the details of what sort of cases are happening each year. So you will get from the dean's office, some information that this year we had seven cases of plagiarism, two cases of cheating, and so forth. And what is the most common penalty from this list of seven or eight penalties that are used in direct resolutions? Well, the most common penalty that an instructor will suggest is a grade of F in the course. So the stakes for potential violations of academic integrity is very high. So the best way to avoid getting yourself in the situation is to avoid cheating or plagiarism. 

Now we have on our website, and this is the web address, our policy and procedure memorandum for academic ethics. And I encourage you, especially if you need to go to sleep at night, to read through that. Hopefully, we've covered most of the high points in this discussion. 

One of the things that I mentioned is that the academic ethics board has as one of its charges, to educate our students and faculty on academic ethics. And the education of the faculty involves, remember, that academic ethics and academic integrity is the responsibility of both professors and students. 

One of the things that's come out of the academic ethics board-- and this came out a couple of years ago-- is that they thought we should have an academic ethics training module. And one was prepared, and we now require all students to successfully complete the academic ethics training module before graduation. This is in addition to the requirement for the discussion on responsible conduct of research. And so this academic ethics module, the website of which I've given you here, is something that, if you're interested in learning more about the details of academic ethics, please do the academic ethics module, and, particularly, if you're interested in graduating, you need to do the academic ethics module. 

So this completes the discussion on this topic, which is academic ethics, and hopefully you have been able to understand this topic from both the general, ethical, philosophical, underpinnings, as well as the various rules and regulations which our school has in terms of academic ethics. 

[MUSIC PLAYING]. 



Copyright (c) 2014 Johns Hopkins University. All Rights Reserved. 
Lecture transcripts are copyright protected and provided to accommodate students under the Americans with Disabilities Act. They are prepared as written representations of the spoken lectures and should be used in conjunction with the course lectures and not as a substitution for viewing them. If you have any concerns about the transcript, please contact the course instructor or teaching assistant.