Hello. My name is Sharon Craig and I'm a professor in biochemistry and molecular biology here at the Bloomberg School. My research work is in glycobiology and I've been funded by the National Institutes of Health-- the NIH-- for over 25 years. 

When I began as a young assistant professor working in my laboratory, the only compliance worries that I had were scientific misconduct and renewing my radiation badge. Times have really changed for researchers, who now spend about 30% of their time worrying about various aspects of research compliance. This is primarily due to increasing scrutiny and regulation of research because of public funding other research enterprise. 

As a beginning researcher you need to understand the interplay between research ethics and moral principles involved in your research and the research regulatory landscape. This understanding is important to you as a researcher and as a future grantee of research dollars. The NIH requires that all predoctoral students and postdoctoral fellows funded by federal training grants are trained in the elements of responsible conduct of research. 

Since 1996, the Bloomberg School of Public Health has had a requirement that all research students-- doctor of philosophy, doctor of science, master of science, and academic master of health science students-- must take a course in responsible conduct of research. I developed this training module after 13 years of teaching research ethics-- which was a course in responsible conduct of research-- in our school as the associate dean for graduate education and research. 

This training module covers all the elements determined by the NIH to be crucial-- scientific misconduct, mentorship, data management, authorship, conflict of interest, and use of animal and human subjects in research. In addition, I've added an introductory section to explain more about what is responsible research conduct, a section on academic ethics,-- which is important to you if you're still taking didactic courses-- and a knowledge assessment-- i.e. a test. I hope you find the module to be informative and interesting as you begin your research career. 

Copyright (c) 2014 Johns Hopkins University. All Rights Reserved. 
Lecture transcripts are copyright protected and provided to accommodate students under the Americans with Disabilities Act. They are prepared as written representations of the spoken lectures and should be used in conjunction with the course lectures and not as a substitution for viewing them. If you have any concerns about the transcript, please contact the course instructor or teaching assistant.